Runtime tools dev ui docs (#4057)
kiegroup/kie-docs: doc-content/kogito-docs/src/main/asciidoc/bpmn/chap-kogito-developing-process-services.adoc

You can reschedule or cancel a job that is in scheduled or error state. You can also modify the expiration time for one-time jobs and repeat interval, repeat time, and expiration time for the periodic jobs.
--

> [id="proc-jobs-management"]

Reviewer: Prefix proc is for procedures and con is for concepts

```suggestion
[id="con-jobs-management"]
```

* https://quarkus.io/guides/security-openid-connect#configuring-using-the-application-properties-file[Configuring using the application.properties file]
* https://quarkus.io/guides/security-openid-connect-multitenancy[Using OpenID Connect multi-tenancy]

[id="con-runtime-tools-dev-ui_{context}"]

> == {PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI

Reviewer 2: I'd rename this to `Runtime tools Quarkus Extension`.

> In {PRODUCT}, runtime tools Dev user interface allows developers to access different features of {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console together in an unified interface. The runtime tools Dev UI is intended for the local development environment, containing main features of both the consoles, which is also easy to set up.

Reviewer 2: This is great, but maybe enhance it mentioning that this is a quarkus extension that will expose the ui in Quarkus DEV UI. I'd put some emphasys on saying that this will help the developer testing his kogito-app without the need of a complex setup (keyckloak, mgmt-console, task-console)

To access the Dev UI from your Quarkus project, you can add the following dependency to the `pom.xml` file:

.Dependency to access {PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI in Quarkus
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
    <artifactId>runtime-tools-quarkus-extension</artifactId>

>     <version>1.11.0.Final</version>

Reviewer 2: @hmanwani-rh Do we have a wildcarad for the kogito version? otherwise I'd use an expression like `{kogito.version}` or a even later version of the product (1.13.0)

</dependency>
----

> Also, add the following properties to the `application.properties` file:

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good mentioning that here we are configuring the users that will be available in Task Inbox. I think it needs expanding what these properties are, for example: 

- `quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users`: comma separated list of users...
- `quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.{userId}`: ...

quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.jdoe.groups=admin
quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.admin.groups=admin
quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.user.groups=user
----

To access the Dev UI, run your project in development mode and select the http://localhost:8080/q/dev URL:

.{PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI for Quarkus
image::kogito/bpmn/quarkus-dev-ui.png[Image of quarkus dev ui]

The Quarkus extension consists of different menus to navigate to different pages, such as Configuration, Kogito Runtime Tools, and Infinispan Client. Using the *{PRODUCT} Runtime Tools* menu, you can navigate to *Process Instances*, *Tasks*, *Jobs*, and *Forms*.

* *Process Instances*: Use this section to view process and subprocess instances by status or business key.
* *Jobs*: Use this section to view a list of available jobs. You can also filter the jobs by status and perform different actions, such as view details, reschedule, or cancel.
* *Tasks*: Use this section to view the list of available user tasks that you can interact with by filtering based on the status.
* *Forms*: Use this section to generate and customize the forms directly in the browser.

.Menus in Quarkus extension

> image::kogito/bpmn/forms-section-kogito-runtime-tools.png[Image of menus in Quarkus extension]

Reviewer 2: The image is showing the browser navigation bar, maybe we could use a detailed view of the card itself since we already seen the full dev-ui in the previous image. I think we could mention the counter too

Reviewer 2: @Sara4994 please fix this image!

Reviewer 2: Still here

The features in the Dev UI are similar to {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console. For more information about the {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console, see xref:con-management-console_kogito-developing-process-services[] and xref:con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services[].

> .Process Instances in {PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI

Reviewer 2: I'd add a section for each menu item here (Process, Jobs, Tasks & Forms) with a screenshot and redirect to the mgmt/task console features documentation if needed.

For Tasks, I'd also mention that is possible to impersonate users using the dropdown and those users are comming from the `application.properties` config file.

Reviewer 2: Still here

image::kogito/bpmn/kogito-runtime-tools-dev-ui.png[Image of process instances in Kogito runtime tools dev ui]

=== Forms

> The {PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI enables you to generate and customize the forms directly on the browser. To customize the forms, you can use the dedicated code editor, which can compile HTML and React forms that are written in Typescript. However, you use Patternfly components to create React forms in the {PRODUCT} Management Console.

Reviewer 2: I think this is not clear: "However, you use Patternfly components to create React forms in the {PRODUCT} Management Console."

Instead I'd say mention that those custom forms will be used in Task Inbox instead of the auto generated ones.

.Forms in {PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI
image::kogito/bpmn/forms-pages-table-view.png[Image of forms in Dev UI table view]

When you select a form in the *Forms* page, you are redirected to the form displayer. The form displayer contains a code editor, which compiles the source code and displays the results on the right-side panel.

Initially, the form content and the related configuration are added to the code editor. You can make changes to the code in the editor and click the play icon from the toolbar to execute the code immediately on the browser.

The *Source* tab loads the source code of the form in HTML or Typescript format based on the selected form. When the configurations of a form are loaded on the *Connections* tab, which is a JSON object containing the schema, a set of resources including CDN links, URLs pointing to JS or CSS files are added to the form.

.Form source in code editor
image::kogito/bpmn/runtime-tools-dev-ui-code-editor.png[Image of form displayer source code editor]

.Form cofigurations in code editor
image::kogito/bpmn/runtime-tools-dev-ui-code-eitor-configurations.png[Image of form displayer configuration code editor]

> .Code editor toolbar options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Toolbar options in code editor
```

* https://quarkus.io/guides/security-openid-connect#configuring-using-the-application-properties-file[Configuring using the application.properties file]
* https://quarkus.io/guides/security-openid-connect-multitenancy[Using OpenID Connect multi-tenancy]

[id="con-runtime-tools-dev-ui_{context}"]
== Runtime tools Quarkus Extension

> In {PRODUCT}, runtime tools quarkus extension allows developers to access different features of {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console together in an unified interface. This is intended for the local development environment, can be integrated with quarkus applications and allows you test the kogito-app without the need of a complex setup.

Reviewer 2: I'd change this text in a similar way as I mentioned in the Release notes, 

I'd put emphasis on the Runtime Tools Quarkus Extension is a new quarkus extension to help developers building Kogito apps based on Quarkus. 

Then mention that the extension will enable a unified ui with features from the different kogito consoless that will be accessible from the Quarkus DEV UI

> To access the extension from your Quarkus project, you can add the following dependency to the `pom.xml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the extension from your Quarkus project, you must add the following dependency to the `pom.xml` file:
```

Reviewer 2: I may add a section called `Setting up the Runtime tools quarkus extension` explaininng how to set up the dep and the users

.Dependency to access {PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI in Quarkus
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
    <artifactId>runtime-tools-quarkus-extension</artifactId>
    <version>1.13.0.Final</version>
</dependency>
----

> Also, add the following properties to the `application.properties` file. This configures users that will be available in Task Inbox.

Reviewer 2: I'll expand the user settings, explaining how they will be used and what each property means.

* https://quarkus.io/guides/security-openid-connect#configuring-using-the-application-properties-file[Configuring using the application.properties file]
* https://quarkus.io/guides/security-openid-connect-multitenancy[Using OpenID Connect multi-tenancy]

[id="con-runtime-tools-dev-ui_{context}"]
== Runtime tools Quarkus Extension

> In {PRODUCT}, runtime tools quarkus extension helps in developing your {PRODUCT} applications in quarkus. This extension will add a new user interface with unified features from the different {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console that will be accessible in the quarkus dev ui. This is intended for the local development environment, can be integrated with quarkus applications and allows you test the kogito-app without the need of a complex setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {PRODUCT}, runtime tools quarkus extension helps in developing your {PRODUCT} applications in Quarkus. This extension adds a new user interface with unified features from the different {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console, which is accessible in the Quarkus dev UI. This is intended for the local development environment, can be integrated with Quarkus applications, and allows you to test the {PRODUCT} application without the need of a complex setup.
```

=== Setting up the Runtime tools quarkus extension

> Quarkus dev ui shows a list of extensions that you have on the project. To enable the runtime tools quarkus extension from your Quarkus project, you must add the following dependency to the `pom.xml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quarkus dev UI shows a list of extensions that you have on the project. To enable the runtime tools Quarkus extension from your project, you must add the following dependency to the `pom.xml` file:
```

.Dependency to access {PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI in Quarkus
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
    <artifactId>runtime-tools-quarkus-extension</artifactId>
    <version>1.13.0.Final</version>
</dependency>
----

> Also, add the following properties to the `application.properties` file. This configures users and impersonated on the task page using the dropdown availale at the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, add the following properties to the `application.properties` file. This configures users and impersonates them on the task page using the dropdown available at the top.
```

* `quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users`: This property creates a list of users

> * `quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.<user>.groups`: This assigns specific roles to the users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.<user>.groups`: This property assigns specific roles to the users
```

[source]
----
quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users=jdoe,admin,user
quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.jdoe.groups=admin
quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.admin.groups=admin
quarkus.kogito-runtime-tools.users.user.groups=user
----

=== Accessing Runtime tools quarkus extension

> To access the quarkus extension, run your project in development mode and select the http://localhost:8080/q/dev URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the Quarkus extension, run your project in development mode and select the `http://localhost:8080/q/dev` URL:
```

.Quarkus Dev UI
image::kogito/bpmn/quarkus-dev-ui.png[Image of quarkus dev ui]

The Quarkus extension consists of different menus to navigate to different pages, such as Configuration, Kogito Runtime Tools, and Infinispan Client. Using the *{PRODUCT} Runtime Tools* menu, you can navigate to *Process Instances*, *Tasks*, *Jobs*, and *Forms*. The features are similar to {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console.

> .{PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI for Quarkus

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.{PRODUCT} Runtime Tools Dev UI for Quarkus
```

The Quarkus extension consists of different menus to navigate to different pages, such as Configuration, Kogito Runtime Tools, and Infinispan Client. Using the *{PRODUCT} Runtime Tools* menu, you can navigate to *Process Instances*, *Tasks*, *Jobs*, and *Forms*. The features are similar to {PRODUCT} Management Console and Task Console.

.{PRODUCT} runtime tools Dev UI for Quarkus
image::kogito/bpmn/kogito-runtime-tools-dev-ui-card.png[align="center"][Image of menus in Quarkus extension]

* *Process Instances*: Use this section to view process and subprocess instances by status or business key. For more details, see xref:con-process-instances[].
* *Jobs*: Use this section to view a list of available jobs. You can also filter the jobs by status and perform different actions, such as view details, reschedule, or cancel. For more details, see xref:proc-jobs-management[].
* *Tasks*: Use this section to view the list of available user tasks that you can interact with by filtering based on the status. For more details, see xref:con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services[].
* *Forms*: Use this section to generate and customize the forms directly in the browser.
--

=== Forms

> The {PRODUCT} Quarkus extension enables you to customize the forms directly on the browser by using the dedicated code editor, which can compile HTML code and React code that are written in Typescript. You can use Patternfly components to create React forms. These customized forms will be used in Task Inbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {PRODUCT} Quarkus extension enables you to customize the forms directly on the browser by using the dedicated code editor, which can compile HTML code and React code that is written in Typescript. You can use Patternfly components to create React forms. These customized forms are used in Task Inbox.
```
